1. What are Basic Components in a SOC
2. What are Fundamentals of a SOC
3. What is a SIEM solution and how does it work
4. Describe an efficient and effective method which can be used to prevent violations of computer security procedures
5. SOC analysts need to gather information from multiple sources. How can you determine which information is relevant and differentiate between false positives and false negative logs
6. Explain a plan of action which will safeguard computer files against modification, destruction or disclosure
7. IN your firewall do you prefer filtered ports or closed ports
8. Which IR methodology do you prefer? Explain why you use it
9. Consider you are looking at the incoming traffic, but it is encrypted, how would you figure out if the payloads are malicious or benign
10. If a company wants to implement a new security event manager. Describe your approach for the implementation
11. What are the multiple sources from which a SOC receives log and data
12. What is the difference between traditional and next generation SOC
13. How would you define a cyber threat or cyber-attack
14. What is the difference between IOC and an IOA
15. How would you define local logging and central logging? What is the difference
16. What are the concepts of handling alerts, triaging them and analyzing the alerts
17. In your opinion why do you think there is a need for a threat intelligence driven SOC
18. What are the phases of incident handling
19. Define Insider incidents and how would you respond to such events
20. Does only setting up a SIEM solution complete a SOC
21. Consider that a device is not sharing any logs, being a SOC analyst how would you identity and detect that particular device
22. Consider an in-house application or any other custom built application which does not have the capability to share its log how would you handle and monitor such applications
23. At times certain applications send raw logs, being a SOC analyst how would you parse such logs
24. How can you evaluated how Mature is your SOC
25. Being an analyst how important is a SOC playbook or workflow
